content/tutorial/11-cooldowns.md, before:

---
title: "11 - Cooldowns"
date: 2021-02-17T12:49:20Z
---

You may often find a need when making bots to give commands their own cooldowns, to ensure that they're not called too often. There are a variety of reasons for this, such as mitigating spam, or fairly commonly, making sure people don't send too many requests if the command is an API intensive one.

Fortunately for us, discord.py provides built-in cooldown decorators that we can use on our existing commands that do just this. This will be a fairly small part, since there is not that much to cover on the topic, however I hope it will be of great use for ratelimiting your commands.

To start with, let's recap one of the commands we have from earlier, the setstatus command:

```py
    @commands.command(name="setstatus")
    async def setstatus(self, ctx: commands.Context, *, text: str):
        """Set the bot's status."""
        await self.bot.change_presence(activity=discord.Game(name=text))
```

Now, we don't want someone seeing this in chat and deciding that they want to keep testing it over and over, that would be spammy and unwanted. So, we put a cooldown on the command. Cooldowns use decorators, just like how you defined that it was a command, as a few other things do also, which I'll show later in the tutorial. If we add a cooldown the command will end up looking like this:

```py
    @commands.command(name="setstatus")
    @commands.cooldown(rate=1, per=5)
    async def setstatus(self, ctx: commands.Context, *, text: str):
        """Set the bot's status."""
        await self.bot.change_presence(activity=discord.Game(name=text))
```

As you can see, we added the line `@commands.cooldown(1, 5)`, but on it's own this probably doesn't do quite what we want. By default the cooldown decorator uses commands.BucketType.default as it's bucket type - which is a global bucket. This means if I use !setstatus in my server, and Dave uses !setstatus in his server 2 seconds later, the command won't work for him, because the cooldown is global. To fix this we need to use a different bucket type, I'm going to opt for the guild bucket type, which as you'd expect uses a guild based bucket, but you can use [any of these bucket types.](https://discordpy.readthedocs.io/en/latest/ext/commands/api.html#discord.discord.ext.commands.BucketType)

{{< tip "warning" >}}
Make note of the fact that `BucketType.user` and `BucketType.member` are different things. User will create a global cooldown for a single user across all servers the bot is in, whereas member is per guild.
{{< /tip >}}

```py
    @commands.command(name="setstatus")
    @commands.cooldown(rate=1, per=5, commands.BucketType.guild)
    async def setstatus(self, ctx: commands.Context, *, text: str):
        """Set the bot's status."""
        await self.bot.change_presence(activity=discord.Game(name=text))
```

That's better, now we've limited that command to be run once every 5 seconds, per guild, which is much more useful than a global ratelimit here. But now, we have a different issue. Now, if we run the command in rapid succession nothing happens - not even showing an error to the user. This can leave people fairly confused, "It worked for vco, why didn't it work for me?" which is why we now need to add error handling for it. Error handling will also be covered in far greater detail later in the tutorial, but for the purposes of this part, I'll add a simple one for the command. Adding an error handler for a command looks something like the following:

```py
    @setstatus.error
    async def setstatus_error(self, ctx: commands.Context, error):
        if isinstance(error, commands.CommandOnCooldown):
            await ctx.send(f"This command is on cooldown, try again after {round(error.retry_after)} seconds.", delete_after=5)
        print(error)
```

I won't go over the error handling in detail here, but there is one new thing here I should mention. If you look in the `ctx.send()` function, you'll see a `delete_after` parameter, this tells discord.py to delete the message after the interval provided, to the error message gets deleted after a few seconds and doesn't clog up chat.

That's it for cooldowns, there isn't much more to know (though I suggest you check the [docs page for them](https://discordpy.readthedocs.io/en/latest/ext/commands/api.html#discord.ext.commands.cooldown)), you're now ready to move onto the next part!

Commit message:

chore: update cooldowns with better examples

content/tutorial/11-cooldowns.md, after:

---
title: "11 - Cooldowns"
date: 2021-02-17T12:49:20Z
---

You may often find a need when making bots to give commands their own cooldowns, to ensure that they're not called too often. There are a variety of reasons for this, such as mitigating spam, or fairly commonly, making sure people don't send too many requests if the command is an API intensive one.

Fortunately for us, discord.py provides built-in cooldown decorators that we can use on our existing commands that do just this. This will be a fairly small part, since there is not that much to cover on the topic, however I hope it will be of great use for ratelimiting your commands.

To start with, let's recap one of the commands we have from earlier, the `setstatus` command:

```py
    @commands.command(name="setstatus")
    async def setstatus(self, ctx: commands.Context, *, text: str):
        """Set the bot's status."""
        await self.bot.change_presence(activity=discord.Game(name=text))
```

Now, we don't want someone seeing this in chat and deciding that they want to keep testing it over and over, that would be spammy and unwanted. So, we put a cooldown on the command. Cooldowns use decorators, just like how you defined that it was a command, as a few other things do also, which I'll show later in the tutorial. If we add a cooldown the command will end up looking like this:

```py
    @commands.command(name="setstatus")
    @commands.cooldown(rate=1, per=30)
    async def setstatus(self, ctx: commands.Context, *, text: str):
        """Set the bot's status."""
        await self.bot.change_presence(activity=discord.Game(name=text))
```

As you can see, we added the line `@commands.cooldown(rate=1, per=30)`, which limits the command to be run once every 30 seconds globally (across all servers the bot is in).

{{< tip "warning">}}
By default the cooldown decorator uses commands.BucketType.default as it's bucket type - which is a global bucket. This means if I use `!setstatus` in my server, and Dave uses `!setstatus` in his server two seconds later, the command won't work for him, because the cooldown is global. Due to the global nature of the `!setstatus` command (the status can be seen globally, after all), I'll continue to use the global cooldown bucket, but you can use [any of these bucket types.](https://discordpy.readthedocs.io/en/latest/ext/commands/api.html#discord.discord.ext.commands.BucketType)
{{< /tip >}}

{{< tip "warning" >}}
Make note of the fact that `BucketType.user` and `BucketType.member` are different things. User will create a global cooldown for a single user across all servers the bot is in, whereas member is per guild.
{{< /tip >}}

Now we have an issue, if we run the command in rapid succession nothing happens - not even showing an error to the user. This can leave people fairly confused, "It worked for vco, why didn't it work for me?" which is why we now need to add error handling for it. Error handling will also be covered in far greater detail later in the tutorial, but for the purposes of this part, I'll add a simple one for the command. Adding an error handler for a command looks something like the following:

```py
    @setstatus.error
    async def setstatus_error(self, ctx: commands.Context, error):
        if isinstance(error, commands.CommandOnCooldown):
            await ctx.send(f"This command is on cooldown, try again after {round(error.retry_after)} seconds.", delete_after=5)
        print(error)
```

I won't go over the error handling in detail here, but there is one new thing here I should mention. If you look in the `ctx.send()` function, you'll see a `delete_after` parameter, this tells discord.py to delete the message after the interval provided, to the error message gets deleted after a few seconds and doesn't clog up chat.

That's it for cooldowns, there isn't much more to know (though I suggest you check the [docs page for them](https://discordpy.readthedocs.io/en/latest/ext/commands/api.html#discord.ext.commands.cooldown)), you're now ready to move onto the next part!
